docs/src/content/docs/features/billing.mdx, before:

---
title: Billing
description: Billing and subscription management in iSaaSIT
---

Billing in iSaaSIT is handled at the Organization level with usage-based caps.

## Overview

:::note[Optional]
Billing integration is included, but it is optional. The starter kit works on the free tier without Lemon Squeezy configured.
:::

## Billing Model

- **Billing Entity**: Organization (not individual users)
- **Provider**: Lemon Squeezy (Merchant of Record)
- **Pricing**: Based on usage caps

## Usage Caps

Each subscription plan defines caps for:

| Cap | Description |
|-----|-------------|
| `maxCustomers` | Maximum client companies |
| `maxStaff` | Maximum staff members |
| `maxClients` | Maximum client users per customer |

## Implementation Notes

- Subscriptions sync via Lemon Squeezy webhooks.
- Plan limits are enforced based on the variant ID stored on the org.
- Org records store subscription status, plan ID, usage caps, and trial/end dates.

## Configuration

- Set `VITE_LEMONSQUEEZY_*` variables in `.env.local` for the checkout UI.
- Set `LEMONSQUEEZY_*` variables in Convex for webhook processing and plan limits.
- See `SETUP.md` for the full step-by-step configuration.

## Webhook Handling

When implemented, webhooks will handle:

- `subscription_created`
- `subscription_updated`
- `subscription_cancelled`
- `subscription_expired`

## Enforcing Caps

```typescript
export const createCustomer = mutation({
  args: { name: v.string() },
  handler: async (ctx, args) => {
    const org = await getCurrentOrg(ctx);
    
    // Check current usage
    const currentCount = await ctx.db
      .query('customers')
      .withIndex('by_org', q => q.eq('orgId', org._id))
      .collect();
    
    // Enforce cap
    if (currentCount.length >= org.maxCustomers) {
      throw new Error(
        `Customer limit reached (${org.maxCustomers}). ` +
        `Please upgrade your plan.`
      );
    }
    
    // Create customer...
  },
});
```

## Future Enhancements

- Usage-based pricing (per-seat, per-customer)
- Add-ons for additional features
- Annual billing discounts
- Trial periods

Commit message:

docs(04-02): update billing docs for Polar
- replace Lemon Squeezy references across docs and setup guides
- refresh planning metadata and environment examples for Polar

docs/src/content/docs/features/billing.mdx, after:

---
title: Billing
description: Billing and subscription management in iSaaSIT
---

Billing in iSaaSIT is handled at the Organization level with usage-based caps.

## Overview

:::note[Optional]
Billing integration is included, but it is optional. The starter kit works on the free tier without Polar configured.
:::

## Billing Model

- **Billing Entity**: Organization (not individual users)
- **Provider**: Polar
- **Pricing**: Based on usage caps

## Usage Caps

Each subscription plan defines caps for:

| Cap            | Description                       |
| -------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `maxCustomers` | Maximum client companies          |
| `maxStaff`     | Maximum staff members             |
| `maxClients`   | Maximum client users per customer |

## Implementation Notes

- Subscriptions sync via Polar webhooks.
- Plan limits are enforced based on the product key mapped in the Polar configuration.
- Org records store subscription status, plan ID, usage caps, and trial/end dates.

## Configuration

- Set `VITE_POLAR_SERVER` in `.env.local` for optional UI hints.
- Set `POLAR_*` variables in Convex for webhooks and product mapping.
- See `SETUP.md` for the full step-by-step configuration.

## Webhook Handling

When implemented, webhooks will handle:

- `product.created`
- `product.updated`
- `subscription.created`
- `subscription.updated`

## Enforcing Caps

```typescript
export const createCustomer = mutation({
  args: { name: v.string() },
  handler: async (ctx, args) => {
    const org = await getCurrentOrg(ctx);

    // Check current usage
    const currentCount = await ctx.db
      .query('customers')
      .withIndex('by_org', (q) => q.eq('orgId', org._id))
      .collect();

    // Enforce cap
    if (currentCount.length >= org.maxCustomers) {
      throw new Error(`Customer limit reached (${org.maxCustomers}). ` + `Please upgrade your plan.`);
    }

    // Create customer...
  },
});
```

## Future Enhancements

- Usage-based pricing (per-seat, per-customer)
- Add-ons for additional features
- Annual billing discounts
- Trial periods
